SOURCE: Stechly, Valmeekam & Kambhampati, "Chain of Thoughtlessness? An Analysis of CoT in Planning" (NeurIPS 2024, arXiv:2405.04776) -- companion code repo karthikv792/cot-planning, file example_query_prompts/blocksworld_state_tracking/upb.txt (the "Blocksworld Universal Algorithm" n-shot CoT prompt exemplar; vendored at tasks/blocksworld/vendor/cot-planning, commit in vendor/cot-planning.commit). Verbatim below (2 concatenated worked examples, 6 and 12 steps, exactly as they appear in the repo file used to build the paper's CoT prompts).
---
Here is an example problem:

[STATEMENT]
As initial conditions I have that, Block B is clear, Block C is clear, the hand is empty, Block C is on top of Block A, Block A is on the table, Block B is on the table.
My goal is to have that Block A is on top of Block C and Block B is on top of Block A

My plan is as follows:

[PLAN]
1. Current State: Block B is clear, Block C is clear, the hand is empty, Block C is on top of Block A, Block A is on the table and Block B is on the table
   Action: unstack the Block C from on top of the Block A
   Reason: The above action is applicable in the current state because its preconditions; Block C is clear, the hand is empty and Block C is on top of Block A, are satisfied in the current state.
   Resulting State: Block A is clear, Block B is clear, the hand is currently holding Block C, Block A is on the table and Block B is on the table

2. Current State: Block A is clear, Block B is clear, the hand is currently holding Block C, Block A is on the table and Block B is on the table
   Action: put down the Block C
   Reason: The above action is applicable in the current state because its preconditions; the hand is currently holding Block C, are satisfied in the current state.
   Resulting State: Block A is clear, Block B is clear, Block C is clear, the hand is empty, Block A is on the table, Block B is on the table and Block C is on the table

3. Current State: Block A is clear, Block B is clear, Block C is clear, the hand is empty, Block A is on the table, Block B is on the table and Block C is on the table
   Action: pick up the Block A
   Reason: The above action is applicable in the current state because its preconditions; Block A is clear, the hand is empty and Block A is on the table, are satisfied in the current state.
   Resulting State: Block B is clear, Block C is clear, the hand is currently holding Block A, Block B is on the table and Block C is on the table

4. Current State: Block B is clear, Block C is clear, the hand is currently holding Block A, Block B is on the table and Block C is on the table
   Action: stack the Block A on top of the Block C
   Reason: The above action is applicable in the current state because its preconditions; Block C is clear and the hand is currently holding Block A, are satisfied in the current state.
   Resulting State: Block A is clear, Block B is clear, the hand is empty, Block A is on top of Block C, Block B is on the table and Block C is on the table

5. Current State: Block A is clear, Block B is clear, the hand is empty, Block A is on top of Block C, Block B is on the table and Block C is on the table
   Action: pick up the Block B
   Reason: The above action is applicable in the current state because its preconditions; Block B is clear, the hand is empty and Block B is on the table, are satisfied in the current state.
   Resulting State: Block A is clear, the hand is currently holding Block B, Block A is on top of Block C and Block C is on the table

6. Current State: Block A is clear, the hand is currently holding Block B, Block A is on top of Block C and Block C is on the table
   Action: stack the Block B on top of the Block A
   Reason: The above action is applicable in the current state because its preconditions; Block A is clear and the hand is currently holding Block B, are satisfied in the current state.
   Resulting State: Block B is clear, the hand is empty, Block A is on top of Block C, Block B is on top of Block A and Block C is on the table

Final State: Block B is clear, the hand is empty, Block A is on top of Block C, Block B is on top of Block A and Block C is on the table
The goal conditions are satisfied in the final state. Hence, the above plan is valid.
[PLAN END]

Here is another example:

[STATEMENT]
As initial conditions I have that, Block B is clear, the hand is empty, Block A is on top of Block D, Block B is on top of Block C, Block C is on top of Block A and Block D is on the table.
My goal is to have that Block C is on top of Block D, Block A is on top of Block C and Block B is on top of Block A.

My plan is as follows:

[PLAN]
1. Current State: Block B is clear, the hand is empty, Block A is on top of Block D, Block B is on top of Block C, Block C is on top of Block A and Block D is on the table
   Action: unstack the Block B from on top of the Block C
   Reason: The above action is applicable in the current state because its preconditions; Block B is clear, the hand is empty and Block B is on top of Block C, are satisfied in the current state.
   Resulting State: Block C is clear, the hand is currently holding Block B, Block A is on top of Block D, Block C is on top of Block A and Block D is on the table

2. Current State: Block C is clear, the hand is currently holding Block B, Block A is on top of Block D, Block C is on top of Block A and Block D is on the table
   Action: put down the Block B
   Reason: The above action is applicable in the current state because its preconditions; the hand is currently holding Block B, are satisfied in the current state.
   Resulting State: Block B is clear, Block C is clear, the hand is empty, Block A is on top of Block D, Block C is on top of Block A, Block B is on the table and Block D is on the table

3. Current State: Block B is clear, Block C is clear, the hand is empty, Block A is on top of Block D, Block C is on top of Block A, Block B is on the table and Block D is on the table
   Action: unstack the Block C from on top of the Block A
   Reason: The above action is applicable in the current state because its preconditions; Block C is clear, the hand is empty and Block C is on top of Block A, are satisfied in the current state.
   Resulting State: Block A is clear, Block B is clear, the hand is currently holding Block C, Block A is on top of Block D, Block B is on the table and Block D is on the table

4. Current State: Block A is clear, Block B is clear, the hand is currently holding Block C, Block A is on top of Block D, Block B is on the table and Block D is on the table
   Action: stack the Block C on top of the Block B
   Reason: The above action is applicable in the current state because its preconditions; Block B is clear and the hand is currently holding Block C, are satisfied in the current state.
   Resulting State: Block A is clear, Block C is clear, the hand is empty, Block A is on top of Block D, Block C is on top of Block B, Block B is on the table and Block D is on the table

5. Current State: Block A is clear, Block C is clear, the hand is empty, Block A is on top of Block D, Block C is on top of Block B, Block B is on the table and Block D is on the table
   Action: unstack the Block A from on top of the Block D
   Reason: The above action is applicable in the current state because its preconditions; Block A is clear, the hand is empty and Block A is on top of Block D, are satisfied in the current state.
   Resulting State: Block C is clear, Block D is clear, the hand is currently holding Block A, Block C is on top of Block B, Block B is on the table and Block D is on the table

6. Current State: Block C is clear, Block D is clear, the hand is currently holding Block A, Block C is on top of Block B, Block B is on the table and Block D is on the table
   Action: put down the Block A
   Reason: The above action is applicable in the current state because its preconditions; the hand is currently holding Block A, are satisfied in the current state.
   Resulting State: Block A is clear, Block C is clear, Block D is clear, the hand is empty, Block C is on top of Block B, Block A is on the table, Block B is on the table and Block D is on the table

7. Current State: Block A is clear, Block C is clear, Block D is clear, the hand is empty, Block C is on top of Block B, Block A is on the table, Block B is on the table and Block D is on the table
   Action: unstack the Block C from on top of the Block B
   Reason: The above action is applicable in the current state because its preconditions; Block C is clear, the hand is empty and Block C is on top of Block B, are satisfied in the current state.
   Resulting State: Block A is clear, Block B is clear, Block D is clear, the hand is currently holding Block C, Block A is on the table, Block B is on the table and Block D is on the table

8. Current State: Block A is clear, Block B is clear, Block D is clear, the hand is currently holding Block C, Block A is on the table, Block B is on the table and Block D is on the table
   Action: stack the Block C on top of the Block D
   Reason: The above action is applicable in the current state because its preconditions; Block D is clear and the hand is currently holding Block C, are satisfied in the current state.
   Resulting State: Block A is clear, Block B is clear, Block C is clear, the hand is empty, Block C is on top of Block D, Block A is on the table, Block B is on the table and Block D is on the table

9. Current State: Block A is clear, Block B is clear, Block C is clear, the hand is empty, Block C is on top of Block D, Block A is on the table, Block B is on the table and Block D is on the table
   Action: pick up the Block A
   Reason: The above action is applicable in the current state because its preconditions; Block A is clear, the hand is empty and Block A is on the table, are satisfied in the current state.
   Resulting State: Block B is clear, Block C is clear, the hand is currently holding Block A, Block C is on top of Block D, Block B is on the table and Block D is on the table

10. Current State: Block B is clear, Block C is clear, the hand is currently holding Block A, Block C is on top of Block D, Block B is on the table and Block D is on the table
   Action: stack the Block A on top of the Block C
   Reason: The above action is applicable in the current state because its preconditions; Block C is clear and the hand is currently holding Block A, are satisfied in the current state.
   Resulting State: Block A is clear, Block B is clear, the hand is empty, Block A is on top of Block C, Block C is on top of Block D, Block B is on the table and Block D is on the table

11. Current State: Block A is clear, Block B is clear, the hand is empty, Block A is on top of Block C, Block C is on top of Block D, Block B is on the table and Block D is on the table
   Action: pick up the Block B
   Reason: The above action is applicable in the current state because its preconditions; Block B is clear, the hand is empty and Block B is on the table, are satisfied in the current state.
   Resulting State: Block A is clear, the hand is currently holding Block B, Block A is on top of Block C, Block C is on top of Block D and Block D is on the table

12. Current State: Block A is clear, the hand is currently holding Block B, Block A is on top of Block C, Block C is on top of Block D and Block D is on the table
   Action: stack the Block B on top of the Block A
   Reason: The above action is applicable in the current state because its preconditions; Block A is clear and the hand is currently holding Block B, are satisfied in the current state.
   Resulting State: Block B is clear, the hand is empty, Block A is on top of Block C, Block B is on top of Block A, Block C is on top of Block D and Block D is on the table

Final State: Block B is clear, the hand is empty, Block A is on top of Block C, Block B is on top of Block A, Block C is on top of Block D and Block D is on the table
The goal conditions are satisfied in the final state. Hence, the above plan is valid.
[PLAN END]